In this asynchronous JavaScript section.
The next question we are discussing is about explain the functionality of async await.
The question is still about asynchronous JavaScript.
In simple words, async await is an easier way to deal with promises.
Promise was an easier way of callback, but async await is even easy to deal with.
Asynchronous process.
It is handling promise only, but with simple syntax.
So let's begin with a simple code.
We have already seen that.
To handle an asynchronous process, we return a promise object from a function.
Let's check this with acing.
For example, I have just a function called test.
At the moment I want to check what the function returns.
Side seconds.
For example, if an function is equal to test, I'm calling the function.
Now, the function doesn't have anything at the moment.
Right.
So if I try to display the value of F in, let's see what it shows.
It says undefined here.
So by default, any function you have in JavaScript returns undefined.
If you do not have any return statement.
Let me just add async before the function and just check what now it returns.
I am running this.
And it returns.
Promise.
You see this?
This itself shows that earlier we were writing written new promise and all like this.
But now if you make a function asynchronous, that means you do not need to write a return statement
with promise.
You do not need to return a promise.
Now, if you check here, the promise which is returned is resolved and the promise value is undefined.
So in case if you return a value like this, let's say I want return zero, for example.
Now if I run, then the resolved promise has promise value zero.
It also means that when you return a value like this, it is always with her resolve state and this
value will be part of promise value.
That is the message we had earlier when we were writing the then statement in case if you want to have
a rejection, for example, when we were writing promise, we had resolved and reject.
But how about rejecting a promise in this syntax?
Certainly you can do that.
You just have to say through.
New era, right?
We already have a class.
Now, if you do this, let's say at a phone, something like this.
Right.
The moment I ran this.
It's going to show me an error.
Not only that, if I just continue with this error and go in the console, you will see that the promise
is returned.
But it says that it is rejected.
And the error displayed here is error found.
So by writing async statement with the function you are returning a promise that means you don't need
to write a return statement for promise if the function is asynchronous.
Number one.
Number two, if you want that, it should return the rejected state.
Then you always have the true statement which can be used to reject a promise.
Let's also check the syntax with arrow function.
I'll simply return zero here so that we don't see any error.
If this was, let's say, an arrow function, then how would you write it?
I'd say contest test is equal to asynchronous.
You don't need this function or test anything, so I'll remove it and I'll put an arrow after these
brackets.
That's it.
Let me clear and run it again so that you get the idea.
How do you write an asynchronous function with an arrow function?
So that's how an async is working and although it is used with async.
So let's discuss.
I'll wait away.
It makes sure to wait till a promise is settled, be it resolved or rejected the way we write then for
handling the promise so far now we have a void so we can remove that then and replace it with await
something like this.
As you see here that we have the function dot then then we have the result one, then we have more chaining.
Also the same thing.
Now if you have to use a weight, you can write like this, which is an easier way to deal with the
chaining of promises.
So looking at this illustration, you can easily make out the simplicity of await while coding.
We already saw a code where we were trying to find square.
Let's try that code here.
This was the code we were trying to get the square.
At the moment I'm not writing Cage and finally, all other things which we already saw with promises.
So this code was showing the square of past value.
Let me run this once to make sure that it is working the way we are expecting it.
So we passed through here and it returns four that is squared off two after 2 seconds.
Now let's convert the code with a think of it, as I mentioned, that you can simply replace the den
with a weight.
It means I may write like this.
I'll say let the result.
Is equal to?
He said of.
Then I'll say I'll wait.
And now I'm going to call the function.
And I just say the value to be passed that is to here.
And the result I'm expecting in adds variable.
That's it.
Let's run.
But there is an error.
The reason is the error sees that although it is only valid in async function.
That means if you are using a weed, it has to be within an asynchronous function only.
So what will we do?
We have two ways here.
Let me show you the first way first.
So I'll say function maybe.
Let's say I named this as short result.
But because I'm going to use it in this function, I'll write a thing before the function.
These two lines I'm going to cut and pasted in this function.
And the next thing is, I'm going to call the show Resolve Function.
Right.
So now if you run.
You have the valid output.
So I also mentioned about the second way.
The second way is that this can further be fine tuned weekend, right?
And asynchronous ifi so that you don't have to create a new function.
Like, here we have created sure result, which was not a need.
In any case, we wanted that these two lines should be executed.
But because this needed a we needed an asynchronous function.
You put it inside.
Sure.
But how about writing a function which doesn't have name and you do not have to call it?
I have already discussed ifI in one of our sections, so you can just check.
What if he is so right now I'm going to make and if he so I don't have to create a function like this,
so I'll see.
And if he so generally we put ifI inside.
Bad off parentheses.
And at the end, because it is going to get called automatically, you're going to put another pair
of parentheses.
Now, you don't need this name.
That's it.
Let's run and see what's the output.
So you can see that now you have created asynchronous ify.
Now the way we tried processing multiple results with promise, that is while calculating the square.
We tried the multiple results.
This we saw.
So now if you want to do similar with asynchronous, how can we do that?
So in this code right now we have used a wait.
So I will create another variable result.
108.
KSDK.
You're right.
And then the result, which you have that you're going to pass here.
So this is going to have.
The result.
One.
And here, let's say you have resolve to.
And you are passing this old one here.
And one more time we are going to display the result to the next result, that is.
So now I'm just displaying this result for the sake of getting the output clarity.
Otherwise, you see a lot of weight together and you don't have to say anything else.
So even when you say it then and then you put the code instead of that, this looks even easier compared
to the -- chaining syntax that is.
Let me run this code also.
And this is going to take some time because each result will take 2 seconds.
So we have 416 and 256 like this.
So that's what asynchronous and away await is.
We always make sure that when you use a tweet, you should have asynchronous and the asynchronous actually
returns a promise.
And when you write asynchronous before a function, that means the function is returning a promise only.
I also want to add one more point here, that when a function is asynchronous, that is when we use
async.
That means it is returning a promise.
And it also means that that function becomes deniable as well.
So, for example, if I have a function test like this, write this which is not returning anything
but the moment you have asynchronous with it.
This means this function is then able, so you can write this function in this manner as well.
This is also a valid syntax, right?
Because any function which returns a promise is then able.
And when you say async, it does return a promise only.
So do make sure that you do have a function which is then able in case if you are creating your own
function.
And let's say you want to handle the result and reject or state with this syntax.
You can use that then and catch with an asynchronous function.
Let's discuss related questions of this topic.
The first question is, can you write away without async?
No, it's not possible.
You always have to use async wrapper to use await.
The second question do you need to return a promise from an async function?
You do not need to return a promise because the moment a function is with async keyword, it means it
is returning a promise which we saw in the beginning itself.
Can you have an asynchronous ifI?
Most certainly you can have it.
It's just a normal function anyway.
Any function can be an asynchronous function.
So if he's also in a v function, so that can always have asynchronous with it like this.
The fourth question is, which is the best way to handle errors with a weight?
So now we have already seen like in discord, we have COVID earlier with promises we had then and catch.
But when you have a way, you do not have catch configured with it.
So the best way to handle the error is that you use to try and catch statement.
So what you can do is if this is the let's say this is your regular code, right?
So I will put a try here.
And the code which I want, I'm going to shift this entire code.
Into the tribe block and then we will configure the catch, right, which may have the error also.
And here you're going to say whatever message, let's say handling the ad and whatever.
So this is the best way to handle the error when it comes to async await.
And the fifth question is explain the syntax of properly start all with async, I'll it.
Now we already discussed in the previous section that whenever we are using promise, all that means
the multiple promises you pass as an iterable.
If that collection of promise is resolved, then it's going to return one promise.
So this is how the syntax can be of promise.
Start all with async await.